# Kawasaki business policy reveals Government manipulation of market demand.

Date: 12 October 2021

News from the Motorcycle Action Group (MAG)

The Motorcycle Action Group (MAG) has pointed out to motorcyclists how
Government policies impact motorcycle business plans.  Recent headlines
proclaiming that Kawasaki will go all electric by 2035 are unlikely to
be the last as other manufacturers follow.

Kawasaki released a business policy briefing on October 6th, 2021,
stating that they are planning to introduce at least ten battery and
hybrid electric models by 2025, and that their entire range for
‘developed countries’ would be electric by 2035.

There is evidence that the brand is also working on using carbon-neutral
fuel (hydrogen).

Both MAG and, more recently, the Federation of European Motorcyclists
Associations (FEMA) conducted polls of riders in the UK and throughout
Europe showing that the vast majority of motorcycle enthusiasts are not
creating the demand for such bikes.

Recently elected MAG Chair, Neil Liversidge, said:

> “This announcement clearly demonstrates that Government policy is
designed to limit our choice of the kind of motorcycle we ride by
forcing industry to supply what the Government wants, not what riders
want.  Whilst we have no opposition to the march of progress, we are
opposed to Government dictating our transport choices in this way.

MAG is opposed to plans to ban the sale of petrol motorcycles by 2035
because we value our freedoms and have no faith in governments to make
the right market decisions.  We cannot guarantee to accurately predict
the state of the technology or the viability of an all-electric vehicle
fleet by any arbitrary date, but we are prepared to predict that the
Government’s predictions will be wrong.”

MAG’s newly appointed Vice Chair, Ian Churchlow, added:

> "I have been an enthusiastic Kawasaki owner and rider since I started
out as a 17-year-old learner. During this period Kawasaki has built an
extraordinary road and racing heritage. The announcement that they will
no longer offer a traditional petrol-powered engine in Europe after 2035
is a severe disappointment that must surely damage Kawasaki's standing
and alienate the many marque enthusiasts who have supported the
company's growth from its inception in the early 1960s."

MAG will be contacting Kawasaki to discuss their business plans and
understand the potential opportunities that could result from a free
market.  MAG will also continue to campaign against the proposed ban of
petrol-powered internal combustion engine (ICE) motorcycles.  A major
new campaign reflecting riders’ calls to defeat all proposals for
banning the choice of riders to buy new petrol-powered ICE motorcycles
is now MAG’s urgent priority.