# MAG members: urgent action required on anti-tampering proposals

Date: 27 October 2021

We can report good news, but the campaign is far from over.

Reaction and responses already sent in response to the DfT’s
Anti-tampering proposals have undeniably had an impact.

Director of Campaigns and Political Engagement, Colin Brown met with DfT
officials, along with Craig Carey Clinch (NMC) and Anna Zee (BMF) on
27th October.  It was clear from comments made by the officials that
they realise that there is an enormous strength of feeling on this
issue. It is certainly not one on which they will be able to push their
luck.

As expected officials were keen to point out that the intended scope of
their proposals is very narrow and that they recognised that there were
many unintended consequences that could potentially follow if the voice
of riders is not closely considered.

The stated aim is to avoid tampering of vehicles in a way that makes
them less safe or increases their emissions footprint.  There is also a
focus on autonomous vehicles and vulnerabilities to cyber-attack for
want of a better term.

Questions raised in the meeting covered issues around assumption of
malice intent, as well as the practicalities of policing any legislative
proposals.  Scope, exemptions, proportionality, retrospection,
time-scales and legislative prioritisation were all discussed.

Colin believes that significant commitments were also secured in the
meeting.

Colin secured a commitment from officials to supply a detailed line by
line explanation of the DfT’s perceived gaps in existing legislation.
This is significant as without the detail we can neither understand the
exact impacts, nor ensure that any forthcoming legislation is suitably
proportionate or limited.  We need to fully understand definitions of
components and systems that will be subject to the legislation as well
as the outcomes of modification that are classed as needing restriction.

Delivery of this information has been promised no later than 1 week
before the end of the formal consultation period.

Allied to this was an offer to answer specific detailed written
questions that can take the form of scenarios to once again determine
the expected impacts.  This is where the urgent action comes in.

We need all members to list all kinds of activity and modification that
they view to be legitimate that are potentially going to be impacted by
the proposals.  This includes questions such as restoration of older
machines, customisation, performance and ergonomic modifications and not
forgetting the different uses of bikes whether that be for off-road or
sport activities.

We will need to supply a list of questions within a week to allow time
for officials to respond.  Time is short.

Additionally we have secured a commitment from officials to continue to
take comment and input from MAG and the other organisations represented
at the meeting beyond the formal end point of the consultation.  We will
also receive the opportunity to comment on detailed drafts of
legislation before publication.

We are thus locked in to the design process of the legislation allowing
us maximum potential to ensure that our rights as owners of the
motorcycles we ride are treated with respect.

So please contact us at central-office@mag-uk.org with all questions and
scenarios that you would like presented.

We would recommend those who have not already responded to the
consultation to hold off completing the survey until we have had
responses from the DfT on the questions and the detailed list of their
perceived legislative “gaps”.  We will ensure that we share this
information with you as soon as it is available and also ensure that
your opinions are heard even if the formal consultation deadline passes.

Thank you for your support.