# MAG defends motorcycle ownership with no strings attached

Date: 12 October 2021

News from the Motorcycle Action Group (MAG)

The Motorcycle Action Group (MAG) is set to oppose restrictions on the
rights of motorcycle owners to modify their own property.  Highlighting
a new Government consultation, MAG warns of the potential end of
motorcycle customisation, aftermarket parts and even what it means to
own a motorcycle.

A recent suite of consultations published by the Department for
Transport (DfT) include proposals to give the state powers to prevent
riders from making modifications to their motorcycles.  MAG has long
opposed anti-tampering legislation from Brussels but now the post-Brexit
UK Government is making a bid to introduce its own powers to limit what
aftermarket motorcycle parts can be bought and sold in the UK.

MAG attended an online webinar hosted by the DfT on the consultation.
MAG’s Director of Campaigns & Political Engagement, Colin Brown, was
quick to point out to officials that proposals for electric vehicle
charging infrastructure simply failed to recognise that the Government
also plans to electrify motorcycles.

Colin said:

> “I was expecting the lack of motorcycle focus in policies for the
charging infrastructure, but the anti-tampering proposals came as a real
sucker punch.  As the owner of a motorcycle with less OEM parts than
aftermarket ones you can imagine my reaction!  This renewed attack on
the right to do with your own property what you wish is not something
that I can see many motorcyclists welcoming.  Just look at how many
memes appear on social media about pay day and bike parts!  I paid good
money for the ownership my motorcycle on the understanding that
ownership buys the right to do what I like to it.”

MAG will be meeting with Department officials to gain a full
understanding of the implications of the proposals before forming aß
detailed response to the consultation.  MAG will also discuss these
issues with other groups in the National Motorcyclists Council (NMC) and
the industry.

The charging infrastructure proposals can be found here:

https://assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/uploads/attachment_data/file/1020983/future-of-transport-regulatory-review-zero-emission-vehicles-print-version.pdf

The anti-tampering proposals can be found here:

https://assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/uploads/attachment_data/file/1021000/future-of-transport-regulatory-review-modernising-vehicle-standards-print-version.pdf
